This document is README for aescm 0.31 (either README or doc/readme.html).

Aescm is a filter tool to embed code in a document. The current version (0.31)
is in alpha state and specifications may be changed. The stable version is escm
1.1, which is a tool for Scheme.

The body of aescm is a filter which converts part outside XML preprocessor
instructions to code. It sends the code to an interpreter which has been
invoked as child process. As you can change conversion rules flexibly, you will
be able to use this tool with your favorite interpreter of your favorite
scripting language.

aescm 0.30 is a downgraded version. Many experimental features have been
removed, and the tool was divided into a filter tool and a CGI tool. By
default, only the filter tool is compiled and installed. The CGI tool must be
installed manually. See cgi.html for information on installation and
configurations of the CGI tool.

Installation

If you want to use Gauche (Scheme interpreter written by Shiro Kawai, the
author of the original escm) as default backend or Guile when Gauche is not
installed, type as usual:

    ./configure
    make
    make install
    

With this setting, only Scheme code is preprocessed. You cannot use SCM, for it
requires different translation rules from those of other Scheme interpreters.
If you want to use this tool with other scripting languages, add 
--enable-polyglot option to configure. See INSTALL(doc/install.html) for more
information. You can change the default computer language and the default
backend.

Environment Variables

You can specify the backend interpreter by setting it with options to
environment vairable ESCM_BACKEND. Command line options for some popular Schme
implementations are listed in doc/interpreter.html.

If you have run configure with --enable-polyglot option, you can specify the
default scripting languge with environment variable ESCM_DEFAULT.

CGI

This package comes with a CGI tool named aescm.cgi, which you should install
manually. The query string by POST method is bound to escm_query_string, for
you cannot directly get it in a CGI script. It is also bound if the method is
GET.

You can use it to process a handler CGI program. See the handler document of
Apache for settings.

Language Configuration File

If you run ./configure with --enable-polyglot, the filter reads the translation
rules form a language configuration file. The language configuration files find
themselves in $(datadir)/aescm/lang (e.g. /usr/local/share/aescm/lang). You can
edit them to change translation rules. and backend interpreters. To edit or add
a configuration file consult doc/gimmick.html.


This document was converted from readme.escm on Wed Dec 8 08:58:03 UTC 2004.
The backend interpreter is gosh -b -I.. Please send bug reports or comments to 
the mailing list or tagga@tsuda.ac.jp.
